OK in this lesson we are going to actually finally use R with Spinner a higher order component.
Now I mentioned before that with our with Spinner component R is loading is going to be a true false
value that gets determined by some outside logic now.
That logic is going to be contained within our shop page because our shop page is actually the one that
knows when technically speaking our shop data is finished loading because the moment that snapshot comes
back and it's converted and then we update our reducer at that point we know that technically speaking
our shop page is good to render the collection object.
So what we're going to do is we are going to first import in our new higher order component with Spinner
from components with Spinner with a spare component
before we do this.
We need to actually figure out how we're going to set the loading value whether it be true or false.
And the best way to do that is inside of our component state now.
In another lesson we are going to actually put it in the reducer.
But first let's just see this work inside of our own components state.
So what we can do shorthand.
Now we tend to use the constructor.
So we've done this before where we call our constructor we call our super.
And then we call this dot state equals and then we would do a loading equals true for example there
is actually a shorter way to do this if we don't need the constructor and all we want to set a state
we can actually just do state equals and then loading goes to true and the constructor and super call
setup react will handle on the back end for us.
This was introduced a couple versions back and it's just a more simplified way so that we don't have
to write constructor super every time react we'll know that if you're in a class component and you write
a state property like so at the top of your component declaration that you probably are just invoking
state.
So it will under the hood invoke the super for us so that we can actually leverage the state value and
now that we have our state we are just going to make sure that after our update collections is called
we'll just call this dot said state where loading equals false now that we have our loading boolean
value as well as determining where in the logic that it will fire.
We have to figure out how to use R with spin or higher order component that we just made now as we know
are with Spinner is a high order component that takes a component as an argument and gives us back a
spin or component that will render the component we passed in when the loading is false.
So we have to actually make that component first and then pass this new component we get out of our
hard component R is loading property and then render it in the place where we would originally have
rendered our past in component so if that sounds confusing don't worry we will write it out and we will
see what that's like.
Now the two places where we know on this component tree that will need to know whether or not the loading
is true or false will be obviously are two root components.
These two components right now just render their respective components when in reality they need to
be aware of whether or not the loading is still happening.
So what we can do here is declare a new component called collection overview with Spinner and this will
be equal to us calling with Spinner and passing in our collections overview.
As we know this will give us back a new component wrapped around the component that we passed in and
using this new component.
We can just pass this component the loading value and we'll do the same thing for our collections page
and we'll see how we'll use this.
So we'll make a collection page with Spinner equal to with Spinner and then passing in the collection
page and now we have our collections overview with Spinner component.
We just need to render it inside or root and pass it.
The loading prop on our state.
So how we'll do this is actually instead of using this component value we can actually use the render
value and render is a method that takes a function where the parameters and the function are pretty
much just the parameters that the component will receive which in our case are going to be the match
location and history props that our route passes into our component which is what gives in fact our
collection page access to the match object that we use inside of our selector which we pull off of own
props.
So because this function will be getting it we have to make sure the past those properties right those
match history and location props down into our component and what we do here is we just render in our
new collection overview with spin or component.
We set this is loading value here and then what we'll do is we will spread in the other props
and first what we're going to do is we are going to just d structure off the loading value from our
struct from our state
and then we'll just have it in
and we'll do the exact same thing for our collection page
and similarly is loading goes to loading and then we'll just spread the props and now if we go back
to our application we'll see that there's that spinner that loads while our component is fetching the
back and data the moment it comes back and updates the reducer.
It flips the loading to false which then renders our actual final component.
We'll see this works for our collections page but we'll see this also works for our shop page and there
we see our spinner component.
And with that we have now used and built our loading component.
So now this pattern that we have here we can leverage in any place where we need some asynchronous data
from the back end before we initialize the actual components that we need.
Now I know maybe it's a little bit confusing but if you watch these videos a couple times this higher
order component pattern will make a lot of sense because there's going to be a lot of projects out there
that leverage this higher order component pattern of wrapping components and returning other components
to extend and reuse functionality just like we did with our with spin or component.
Now I know it's confusing for me when I first learn it.
It was really confusing but now it makes more sense because the more you look at it and the more you
practice it will all click.
And that's all it comes down to.
I promise you the more practice you have with it the more you'll see how to use and leverage this higher
order component pattern OK.
So just like that our application is now wired with our backend we've built in our back backend into
our application and now if we were to say update our back in with anything right.
With a new document object or we were to add values in here are Crown clothing application we'll update
accordingly we don't have to worry about handling any of that information on our front end code all
of that is now separate it into a back end just like a real life application will be.
So you now understand how real life code works when it comes to building a front end application where
it leverages data on a backend.